After we put the experience part,
right, and
then we have our projects,
now comes our education.
Now the only time I recommend putting
certifications on your resume,
only times this actually matters,
is if they are in correlation
directly to technologies.
Our experience, my eight years of
experience, what I have seen is that.
If the certification has absolutely
nothing to do with a type of
technology directly, it is owned
by a company, it does not matter.
If it's cool that you have a free
Code Camp certification, doesn't matter.
Now that AWS cert, that Azure, and
the AZ-900 cert, that's something, right?
That tells me, that you have actually
looked at a technology that we may use for
work and you've certified.
And you've gone through and
from the company itself and
these aren't small companies and
they just don't throw their certs away.
So that lets me know that
you've done some serious work,
you have a ground-level understanding
of technologies we use.
Beyond that, I do not recommend you
putting certifications on there.
Unless I might say it was from
a technical institute, but
even if you go to a bootcamp, well,
most bootcamps aren't accredited.
So the real only certifications that
truly matter come from the technologies
of companies,
like technology companies with the tech
that you're gonna be using, all right?
So you have cloud computing,
certifications are gonna be
very important for you, right?
When it comes to your job hunt, there's
one thing saying you wanna get in cloud
computing, one thing talking
about Edge computing.
You need to know the difference between
cloud computing and Edge computing.
If you're computing in the cloud,
Edge is you're trying to bring the data
as close to the user as possible, right?
So you need to know those differences,
you need to understand how you would use,
Azure, or AWS, or whatever technology.
I guess what CloudFlare, to be able to
do those things with the person, and
that's where those certifications
they matter, right?
I'm pretty sure the chats
called Banana is over for that.
>> Just some questions.
>> Yeah.
>> One was around that
this person did a year and
a half at university,
then switch to more self-taught.
Do they put the university
experience on at all?
>> I don't, I don't know, I tell my
students we need to finish the college,
there's just no point because
it's not they're gonna ask.
If it requires a college degree,
they are not going to ask for
proof of you going to college and
you didn't finish college, right?
And they only really asked for
the degree if it's pertinent to the job or
you put on the resume.
One of the students that
just came through last year,
it held him up for
his job because he went to school for
drama and he had a degree for drama.
And they gave him a lot of drama
because he had to wait for
his degree to come through
before he could start his job.
So he almost lost his job waiting for
the degree to start his job.
Cuz the federal government was like, hey,
we need this degree before cuz you put
it on your resume, so
it has to be a part of our records.
And he got the job in December, nobody
was at school at the time he got the job.
So it took them like six,
seven weeks to get this degree and
he barely almost lost
his job because of it.
So, I recommend that if it's not important
to the degree, I mean it's on the job,
if you didn't finish your degree
program don't even put it on.
>> So what about if they did certificate
from a company that uses Python but
they're looking for
a JavaScript-TypeScript role?
>> Well yeah, you can do that,
cuz it still shows you that you've
learned some programming, right?
That's where the whole, like I said,
learning patterns comes into play, right?
Learning those patterns
helps you transition,
learning other languages faster, right?
People know, or at least it's lore in our
culture that once you learn one language,
the second language is
gonna be faster to learn.
I personally don't believe that, or
maybe it's just that my brain didn't
do that the first two languages,
JavaScript's my second language, Ruby
was a dream, JavaScript was a nightmare.
PHP made me never want
to write PHP again and
then Python was like this is nice.
Nice, this is lovely, okay, that's cool.
But then C# came back, and
I was like, okay, here you go,
you hate me too, all right.
So, like I said, I don't believe
in that but a lot of people do.
I say put it on,
cuz it at least shows that you have
experience working in a language.
>> What about graduate level courses,
like Stanford courses, that kind of thing?
>> How would that correlate
to your ability to program?
For me, it's like okay, that shows
that you're good at going to school,
that shows your mastery level
of that subject but not so much.
How does that correlate to
your programming skills?
My rule stands, if it has nothing
to do with you being able to code,
or you like technology roles when comes
to education I don't even put it off.
I've never put my
degree on my resume.
Only reason people know I went to
FSSU is coz I have it on my LinkedIn.
And the only reason I have it on
my LinkedIn is because my wife and
I went to the same school and
she made me do it.
So that's it, I don't even care.
>> How about having a universal resume for
everything versus multiple more specific?
>> I love that question,
I am King of universal resume versus 8000
different resumes with light core things.
I for me, I have written one resume,
I know the skills that I have,
I know where I'm trying to
be where I'm trying to go.
I focus on, if I'm going to a job search,
this is what I'm grading
every job I applied for by.
Because I know that if it's not about
this, probably I'm not gonna be
a good fit for them, I'll be wasting
their time, I'll be wasting my time.
I'm not gonna be able to put
the best foot forward to make sure
that I get the greatest success metrics.
So, that's one of the first step
I do when I plan my job hunt.
I wanna make sure that I put myself
in the strongest position possible.
So I put a thing like, I believe in
my 3 AM rule, there's no tomorrow.
All right, this is the thing that you call
me about it 3 o'clock in the morning,
I would be like okay, let me get on my
computer and figure this out, right?
If my pager, if I was on call
I had a pager a PagerDuty,
blew up my phone like that's
part of being in tech.
You might be on call for
a weekend rotation, and
PagerDuty will send a Slack message,
then send a text message.
And then call you if something goes down,
right?
Is this the thing at 3 o'clock in
the morning, if I'm on PagerDuty for work,
I'm not gonna be 100%, man,
I might be 30, but I'm not gonna be 100.
Yes sir.
>> How about listing only
the program main languages that you
are really good with versus
a lot of programming languages?
>> I don't recommend listing
anything you don't wanna work it.
You could be good at something and
still not wanna work in it, right?
So let's say, right now market strategy.
Ruby on Rails is actually growing and
jobs right now in the market.
So, if I'm like okay,
Ruby on Rails is what I wanna learn,
am I gonna put Django, Python, .NET?
No, I have experienced in .NET.
I will never put .NET on my resume,
cuz I do not wanna get paid for
writing .NET, that's a fact, right?
I know PHP, I don't put it on my resume,
as a matter of fact,
I've scrubbed my GitHub of PHP,
that's how serious I am.
I don't wanna get paid for it,
I don't wanna anyone to ask me about it.
You don't even wanna get
recruiters hitting you,
there's one lone resume
from when I worked in PHP.
Almost a decade ago, that I can't find and
I keep getting hit up
from random people to hey,
I notice you have experience in PHP.
Where are you finding this resume so
I can burn it off of the Internet,
I don't do, right, so that's just my rule.
I don't put anything on my resume
that I'm, A, not amazing at,
B, don't wanna get paid for.
And usually when you're working in
languages they have to go together, right?
So, if you're putting Python, .NET all
these backend languages on your resume.
Usually, what's going on for
the job, they're not asking you for
all those backend languages
unless you're like DevOps.
And you need a little bit of understanding
of multiple back-end languages to be
able to make things work.
But usually,
it's a comparison style, right?
Okay, like back before years 2015, right?
If you were using Rails,
you weren't really using JavaScript,
you more than likely going to use jQuery,
cuz you're gonna make Rails do
all the logical things, right?
So now use JavaScript and
Hotlink and ES 2015.
But back in 2013-2012,
when you were using Rails,
is this Rails jQuery,
that was in unison, right?
You use the RBs, ERBs.
>> Or even CoffeeScript.
>> CoffeeScript is another thing
that I will never put on my resume.
[LAUGH] Why would you bring,
that's just bad memories,
man, that's triggered, okay.
>> So, I've seen this on people's resumes
where they put like the percentage
level or like.
>> Do not do that.
>> Okay.
>> Don't do that on your portfolio,
don't do that on your resume.
One, who are you basing
these percentages on, right?
There's no table,
like there's universal that says, yeah,
this is the percentages of everything, you
answer these, this is the percentage of.
Are you basing upon,
how much of it you've written,
have you based upon how
fast you can write it?
Or what is this metric that you're
using to get these percentages, right?
You don't have that metric.
That metric may not mean even
if I see these percentages, and
you've put them there, it may not even
mean the same thing to me when I'm
looking at it as opposed to what
you did when you put it on there.
So just don't do it,
cuz I might interpret it as something you
don't want me to interpret it as, so.
>> I have seen people use
stuff like HackerRank and
the assessments they do in
combination to kind of show off what
Hacker Inc thinks they can do,
I'll put it that way.
>> Yeah.
>> The resume is that worthwhile at all or
not?
>> No, it's not,
when it comes to teach or learning code.
Not learning code, but
assessing people's coding skills,
it's more alchemy and
then arithmetic, that's one.
And two, when I look at those
hackering things, I'm like,
are you good at solving hackering problems
or are you good at solving problems?
Cuz those are two different things,
and like full disclosure.
I'm considered a HackerRank
star all-star by them, right?
I still don't buy into
the HackerRank philosophy,
because I've seen people who bomb.
HackerRank problems can
even get past the basics,
build amazing things
when done the right way.
This is how we teach you how to
solve our problems type deal.
And a company can say, all right,
well you can solve those problems,
I know that you at least know
how to solve problems, right?
Versus how some companies like Microsoft,
they are looking at how you solve
the problem, why you solve
the problem that you solve, right?
I was there in my org in
ISE we're looking at okay,
could you have reused some
code to solve this problem?
Was there a common-sense
solution to this problem that
you weren't looking at technically?
I literally had a, one of my hardest
questions from my interview was.
So you're trying to get all the data
from all these cars at the same time,
but there we're in different time zones,
how do you do that?
And I'm sitting here going through
all of these cron jobs and
all this other stuff and the guy was like,
well, you just wait till 2
o'clock in the morning, and
on Eastern coasts on the West coasts.
And he was like, about for usual matter of
time, like 80% of those cars have stopped,
so you just wait till that time and
you just pull them all of their time.
And I was like, yeah,
that's right, it makes sense.
Most people are sleeping around between
those hours late either dead asleep or
they're just about to get up
isn't when on the West Coast lot.
I was like, yeah, that makes
100% sense not technical at all,
I just was just waiting to the west.
He said you just wait to the West Coast,
goes to bed and
then you pull all the data,
that was the answer.
It wasn't a super intricate problem,
sometimes that's not how you solve it,
right?
When you're thinking about these ideals
of how to judge yourself on code,
don't even do that, that's not your job,
your job is their job to judge
you on code, not your job.
Your job is to know that you can solve
any problem when given the right tools.